README.md, before:

# missense-visual

Compare your variant to gnomad and clinvar before applying your PP3 criteria (or discarding it):

<img width="645" height="933" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5922933c-998c-45f4-b976-744a84acd988" />





Currently, only `REVEL`, `AlphaMissense` and `CADDv1.7` are available. `MISTIC`, `MPC2` and `popEVE` are displayed for gnomad and clinvar, but not for custom.

As the `MPC2` is not available in ensembl [VEP api](https://rest.ensembl.org/documentation/info/vep_hgvs_post), 
it is only displayed for gnomad and clinvar variants.

## Setup

- Download the preannotated clinvar_plp_ms.fully_annotated.vcf.gz and its csi
- Download the gnomad preannotated vcf.gz (1.3G) drive link here: [https://1drv.ms/u/c/0c297c45bbbdee7e/IQDlnodDmGNTRq2kMQJ0AE0PAdXzhM5P4HHX8HtbZmxx8hc?e=TBADcU](https://1drv.ms/u/c/0c297c45bbbdee7e/IQDlnodDmGNTRq2kMQJ0AE0PAdXzhM5P4HHX8HtbZmxx8hc?e=TBADcU)
- Download the index gnomad_ms.fully_annotated.vcf.gz.csi
- Download the app.py script

## Usage
Replace the gene and variant by your gene and your variant
```
TARGET_GENE = "SCN1A"
variant = "NM_001165963.4(SCN1A):c.1060G>C"
```

## Known Bugs
- hovering a clinvar or custom variant displays always empty (0) gnomad values, which is often incorrect
-

Commit message:

Revise README for file downloads and variant availability
Updated instructions for downloading files and clarified availability of certain files.

README.md, after:

# missense-visual

Compare your variant to gnomad and clinvar before applying your PP3 criteria (or discarding it):

<img width="645" height="933" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5922933c-998c-45f4-b976-744a84acd988" />





Currently, only `REVEL`, `AlphaMissense` and `CADDv1.7` are available. `MISTIC`, `MPC2` and `popEVE` are displayed for gnomad and clinvar, but not for custom (not available in ensembl [VEP api])(https://rest.ensembl.org/documentation/info/vep_hgvs_post).

## Setup

Download the 2 preannotated vcf with their index
-  `clinvar_plp_ms.fully_annotated.vcf.gz` and `clinvar_plp_ms.fully_annotated.vcf.gz.csi` (available in github rep)
-  `gnomad_ms.fully_annotated.vcf.gz` (1.3G) drive link here: [https://1drv.ms/u/c/0c297c45bbbdee7e/IQDlnodDmGNTRq2kMQJ0AE0PAdXzhM5P4HHX8HtbZmxx8hc?e=TBADcU](https://1drv.ms/u/c/0c297c45bbbdee7e/IQDlnodDmGNTRq2kMQJ0AE0PAdXzhM5P4HHX8HtbZmxx8hc?e=TBADcU) (the index `gnomad_ms.fully_annotated.vcf.gz.csi` is available in the github files)

Download the `gene_coord.csv.gz` (available in github files

Download the `app.py` script

## Usage
- Replace the `/path/to/files` in the `app.py` (at the top of the code)
- Replace the gene and variant by your gene and your variant
```
TARGET_GENE = "SCN1A"
variant = "NM_001165963.4(SCN1A):c.1060G>C"
```
- Run the app.py
